projects/dregosadventure/index.md, before:

---
layout: project
title: "Dr. Ego's Adventure"
description: "A jungle adventure in interactive fiction."
thumb: /projects/dregosadventure/thumb.png
links: ["Download (.z5 file)", "http://ifarchive.org/if-archive/games/competition2020/Games/Dr%20Ego%20and%20the%20egg%20of%20ManToomba/DrEgoAdv.z5", "Play Online", "https://iplayif.com/?story=http%3A%2F%2Fifarchive.org%2Fif-archive%2Fgames%2Fcompetition2020%2FGames%2FDr%2520Ego%2520and%2520the%2520egg%2520of%2520ManToomba%2FDrEgoAdv.z5", "IFDB Page", "https://ifdb.tads.org/viewgame?id=8vl45slqoqhxyucn", "Source Code", "https://github.com/wesleywerner/dregosadv"]
status: stable
---

> April 10th, 1940. 
> 
> My journey started a few days ago. After docking at Port Moresby, it was 
> two days of riding on the back of a truck to Kerema, followed by a flight in 
> a small seaplane, landing near the mouth of the Maro River. 
> 
> I met my guide and his canoe, who will take me to a remote and uncharted
> area in Papua New Guinea. It is here that I hope to find the legendary 
> Golden Egg of Man-Toomba.

----

You are Dr Ego, Adventurous Archeologist. You travel to New Guinea looking for a famed artifact.

Awards
------

Written for and placed 44th in the [26th Annual Interactive Fiction Competition (2020)](https://ifdb.tads.org/viewcomp?id=zkwmnr8k90q7wb2).

Playing on iPhone
-----------------

Get the [Frotz](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/frotz/id287653015#?platform=iphone) app.

[Download the .z5 story file](http://ifarchive.org/if-archive/games/competition2020/Games/Dr%20Ego%20and%20the%20egg%20of%20ManToomba/DrEgoAdv.z5) from Safari, and pick Frotz from the "Open In..." prompt that appears when tapping a download link. Once you have the story loaded, it should appear within the Frotz app for subsequent plays.

*How do I save my progress?* If you press the Home button or answer a call, Frotz will automatically save your progress. Type "restore" to load a previously saved game. These commands are available in the shortcut menu that appears when you double tap the command prompt.

Playing on Android
------------------

Get the [Text Fiction](https://textfiction.onyxbits.de/) app.

- Download the z5 story file on your phone
- Open the Text Fiction app
- Tap the three-dot menu icon then tap Import

Text Fiction auto saves your progress. To resume your story, tap the game menu (+ icon) then tap Restore.

The online version is playable on mobile but can be a frustrating experience, and saving progress does not work on mobile.

Playing on PC
-------------

You can [play the story online](https://iplayif.com/?story=http%3A%2F%2Fifarchive.org%2Fif-archive%2Fgames%2Fcompetition2020%2FGames%2FDr%2520Ego%2520and%2520the%2520egg%2520of%2520ManToomba%2FDrEgoAdv.z5). To save your progress type "SAVE".

You can play the old-school way using a Z-Machine interpreter. [Gargoyle](http://ccxvii.net/gargoyle/) is one such interpreter.

Commit message:

Update description, add verb listing, note about online save state.

projects/dregosadventure/index.md, after:

---
layout: project
title: "Dr. Ego's Adventure"
description: "An interactive fiction treasure hunting adventure."
thumb: /projects/dregosadventure/thumb.png
links: ["Download (.z5 file)", "http://ifarchive.org/if-archive/games/competition2020/Games/Dr%20Ego%20and%20the%20egg%20of%20ManToomba/DrEgoAdv.z5", "Play Online", "https://iplayif.com/?story=http%3A%2F%2Fifarchive.org%2Fif-archive%2Fgames%2Fcompetition2020%2FGames%2FDr%2520Ego%2520and%2520the%2520egg%2520of%2520ManToomba%2FDrEgoAdv.z5", "IFDB Page", "https://ifdb.tads.org/viewgame?id=8vl45slqoqhxyucn", "Source Code", "https://github.com/wesleywerner/dregosadv"]
status: stable
---

You are Dr Ego, adventurous archeologist. You navigate the jungles of New Guinea in search for the golden egg of Man-Toomba.

This is a work of interactive fiction - You control the actions of the protagonist by typing the commands to perform.

> April 10th, 1940. 
> 
> My journey started a few days ago. After docking at Port Moresby, it was 
> two days of riding on the back of a truck to Kerema, followed by a flight in 
> a small seaplane, landing near the mouth of the Maro River. 
> 
> I met my guide and his canoe, who will take me to a remote and uncharted
> area in Papua New Guinea. It is here that I hope to find the legendary 
> Golden Egg of Man-Toomba.

The story recognizes the verbs listed below with the abbreviation in brackets. You can type `HELP` while playing the story for more detailed playing instructions, or type `HINT` if you are stuck and don't know what to do next.

```
LOOK [L]        EXAMINE [X]
GET/TAKE        DROP
INVENTORY [I]   WAIT [Z]
UP [U]          DOWN [D]
SAY             CLIMB
SEARCH          WHIP
AGAIN [G] (repeats last command)

NORTH [N]      SOUTH [S]
EAST [E]       WEST [W]
NORTHEAST [NE] NORTHWEST [NW]
SOUTHEAST [SE] SOUTHWEST [SW] 
```

Going in a compass direction (GO NORTH) is the customary way to get around in IF. This story additionally allows you to specify the name of a place or thing (provided you can see it). For example, if you see a HUT then you can type `GO HUT`. If you see a path you can `GO PATH`, and seeing a bridge or stairs you can `GO BRIDGE` and `GO STAIRS`.

Remember that you can `GO UP` and `GO DOWN` for stairs, ladders and trees.

Awards
------

Written for and placed 44th in the [26th Annual Interactive Fiction Competition (2020)](https://ifdb.tads.org/viewcomp?id=zkwmnr8k90q7wb2).

Playing on iPhone
-----------------

Get the [Frotz](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/frotz/id287653015#?platform=iphone) app.

[Download the .z5 story file](http://ifarchive.org/if-archive/games/competition2020/Games/Dr%20Ego%20and%20the%20egg%20of%20ManToomba/DrEgoAdv.z5) from Safari, and pick Frotz from the "Open In..." prompt that appears when tapping a download link. Once you have the story loaded, it should appear within the Frotz app for subsequent plays.

*How do I save my progress?* If you press the Home button or answer a call, Frotz will automatically save your progress. Type "restore" to load a previously saved game. These commands are available in the shortcut menu that appears when you double tap the command prompt.

Playing on Android
------------------

Get the [Text Fiction](https://textfiction.onyxbits.de/) app.

- Download the z5 story file on your phone
- Open the Text Fiction app
- Tap the three-dot menu icon then tap Import

Text Fiction auto saves your progress. To resume your story, tap the game menu (+ icon) then tap Restore.

The online version is playable on mobile but can be a frustrating experience, and saving progress does not work on mobile.

Playing on PC
-------------

You can [play the story online](https://iplayif.com/?story=http%3A%2F%2Fifarchive.org%2Fif-archive%2Fgames%2Fcompetition2020%2FGames%2FDr%2520Ego%2520and%2520the%2520egg%2520of%2520ManToomba%2FDrEgoAdv.z5). To save your progress type "SAVE". You *have to bookmark* the page after saving, or not close your browser tab, as the save state is added to the page URL.

Alternatively, and to save your progress to file, you can play the old-school way using a Z-Machine interpreter. [Gargoyle](http://ccxvii.net/gargoyle/) is one such interpreter.
